[soft music]
[grunts]
[soft dramatic music]
Caleb!
-[indiscernible speech]
-[Elijah] Like I do.
He carries me in pain.
Down!
[Elijah thuds]
The soul of the sluggard
craves and gets nothing.
While the soul of the good
man is richly supplied.
There, there.
Evelyn, Abigail!
I hope I can trust
thee with this task.
Yes, sir.
Tell to me the ways in
which you have failed.
Tell me!
Here, before our lord eternal,
face the consequences
of your malignancy.
[grunting]
Forgive me father,
for I disrespect you.
My lineage, my maker Etan
who hath given me mould.
I see now my wicked
ways and I repent.
[Elijah breaths heavily]
Repent thee, for you
have forged a path
that cannot be undone.
Come on.
-No.
-Yes.
-No, Father.
-No.
-Come on!
No!
Caleb!
Go!
No!
-No!
-Get up, go.
-Caleb!
-Come on!
-Go!
Caleb!
Get up.
-[Father grunts]
-Caleb, Caleb!
[dramatic music]
[soft music]
[birds chirping]
Abigail, will thou
lead us in prayer?
Yes, Father.
Our leader Etan,
savior and protector.
We live another day safe
from the interloper,
the piper who seeks
to steal our souls.
May he be cast from our
family, from our land,
only if we do not search for
them, will they lay dormant.
For we take refuge in
your name, blessed be.
[all] Blessed be.
And blessed are we.
For tomorrow, one of
us will become a man.
-[rain pouring]
-[clouds rumbling]
Blessed be, Abigail.
Blessed be, Evelyn.
Blessed be, Caleb.
May he look upon thee...
always.
Blessed be.
He smiles down upon our family,
and bestows upon
us good fortune.
Blessed be the land.
May the spirits of evil
never cross this threshold.
May we who live in this
home guide the sacredness
of its doorway.
There are sectors of Etan's
followers all over the earth
and even though we may
be the very last of men,
indignant we remain to
the advances of Abaddon.
-Blessed be.
[clouds rumbling]
Caleb, he calls for thee.
Stand in front of your
savior as he does grace you
with his presence.
El-Shalah, do we not prophesy
in your name, and cast out
demons in your name, and do
many mighty works in your name.
-Blessed be.
Caleb, I ask of thee, does
thou stand without fear
in the presence of Etan?
Does thy unwavering faith
cast away the idolaters,
and interlopers who
seek to be in the light?
Yes.
Then let the prophecy
be fulfilled.
Etan shall bestow
upon you a bride,
and together you
will lead our family
in the fight against darkness.
Destined as I to lead thy
brothers and sisters to Etan.
You two shall one
day lead the flock.
-Blessed be.
[grunts]
Caleb, finish up.
Check the traps before sunset.
Right, Father.
Father, I can check the traps.
I've finished my
chores for today.
No, you will leave
men's work to the men,
and do as he commands.
Yes, Father.
[suspenseful music]
[upbeat music]
-[vocalizing]
-[gasps]
[vocalizing]
[dramatic music]
Empty traps?
Aye.
Seems Etan has not
favored us today.
Seems not.
Abi?
Ab, are you awake?
No.
I saw something today.
Out when I was trapping.
At least, I think I saw it.
Well, what was it?
They tell us that we're
alone, but what if we're not?
Those who tread wildly
will pay repentance,
for every careless
word they utter.
It's late for them
to be moving about.
[Abigail] Leave it, Caleb.
Let me sleep.
[dramatic music]
Remember what
happened to Evelyn
when she was caught out of bed?
When father took her tongue,
and what happened
to poor Elijah.
Look.
Up out of your beds
at such a late hour.
I'm sorry.
Enough.
Children, tell me, do
you not love your mother?
-Yes'm.
Then why must you hurt me
with your disobedience?
You know your mother loves you.
And you?
A lady knows her case.
Do not let temptation
expose you to Abaddon.
But we were just
worried about Elijah.
Your father knows best
what to do with Elijah.
Remove him from your thoughts
for they are nothing,
but blasphemy.
Sleep well, my children.
[girl screams]
One of you has committed
the gravest of sins.
Speak, for Etan surely knows.
Tell me, child,
has thy curiosity
got the better of thee, again?
No, I swear it.
Is it you, girl?
You constantly offend him.
-You're an abomination.
-No!
It was I who breached
the threshold.
An accident, I-- I promise.
Please leave her.
Everyone to the chapel.
Only prayer will
guide us through this.
Boy, you have no idea
what you have done.
I...
Take me to it.
The breach.
And pray for your sake
that it can be undone.
Don't you dare look at me, boy.
He has still to decide thy fate.
[dramatic music]
Kneel.
-[thuds]
-[sobbing]
It is in your mercy we beg.
Right this wrong.
Spare our family for I know
Caleb's heart to be true.
Can the threshold be healed?
I do not know.
It is not up to you or I.
Tell me, what drew thee there?
You know, it's
against my teachings.
I thought I saw someone.
I thought, perhaps
it could be the bride
of whom Etan had spoken.
I see now it was just a figment
brought on to seduce me,
to steal my soul.
It is a lonely existence,
but we must be brave.
Etan, in all his wisdom,
has chosen us to carry out
his plan, and create a
world as he intended.
If we pray, we may have a
glimpse of what will be.
Come now.
You must atone for your sins.
Are you all right, brother?
El-Shalah, who presides over us,
watch over our family,
as we come to you in
a time of great need.
Protect our threshold as we
stand within your inner circle.
And if thy word be true, and
you will bring me a bride.
Please see it through and
let her be delivered safely
into our waiting arms.
Etan be the light that guides us
through the darkest of days.
[dramatic music]
Quiet.
Children, get to the house.
Your father will protect us.
[dramatic music]
Spare us and bring us quickly
and safely to thy kingdom.
[indiscernible speech]
Not to worry, we are safe.
Abigail, perhaps you can
recite a passage from the...
Deliver us.
[indiscernible speech]
We are safe.
-[indiscernible speech]
-We are safe.
[crickets chirping]
Come, we must prepare
ourselves for chapel.
Come!
[soft music]
Today, we must consider
our good fortune, as Etan,
in all his grace, has given us
another member of our flock.
Caleb, I give thee
Mary, thy bride to be.
Just as Etan has promised.
And let us pray for Mary, for
she faces a tremendous task.
Etan's grace is not
bestowed easily,
but through great sacrifice.
My dear, Etan's path may
not be without its pitfalls,
but I promise it will
lead to the light.
I... how did she survive
Abaddon's angels?
Because Etan is good, and
because we have prayed for it.
He hath made it so.
Now come.
Take her hand.
Be good to her, family,
for we must embolden her
with our strengths.
[Mary humming]
We must rest tonight.
For tomorrow we bear the
fruits of our labors.
Caleb, I trust you can
clean without supervision.
Take Mary to help you.
When you're finished,
return her to her room.
Yes sir.
Etan, he spoke of this day.
When the light, like no
other would anoint me,
with who I was meant to be with.
The moment I saw you, I knew.
I know this must be hard.
I don't know from
whence you came,
but I know it must
not compare to here.
But you have us now.
And if you work hard, with
thy head down, I promise...
I will let no harm come to you.
I promise.
Finish up, it's time to rest.
[Mary humming]
Does she always
carry on like that?
It's the middle of the night.
Oh stop.
Me thinks one's jealous.
I am not.
Just...
she appears here as if from
the thin air, no explanation.
No sense of where
she was from before.
But I can explain it.
In Etan's good fortune.
And she appeared just as
the prophecy proclaimed.
Please.
Just a day ago, you were
questioning his teachings.
Yes, and I see how I was wrong.
I see it now as I
see it in her gaze.
I saw father cross
the threshold.
As thou have crossed it, too.
You shouldn't be sneaking about.
Tell me.
What is it you saw out there?
A small structure.
It was nothing.
Just an old decrepit wood shed.
Shed?
Maybe where mother and
father lived before
they were blessed
with this land.
Outside the perimeter?
Forget I said anything.
Or pay a penance for every
careless word you utter.
Thou has no business
swinging that ax.
I was merely trying to help.
You dare speak back to me?
If you wish, I may
be of assistance.
My hands are strong
and mine aim straight.
I mean no disrespect to
my sister or my family
who is so kind to take me in.
Very well.
♪ We all subside ♪
♪ And Etan a path
is thine to follow ♪
♪ He is strong while I am weak ♪
You did good work today and
for that Etan reward thee.
♪ Around, around ♪
[indistinct lyrics]
♪ We all subside ♪
♪ In El-Shalah, we all subside ♪
[Father] Wonderful.
[Mary] Caleb?
Yes, I'm here.
I must thank thee and thy
sister for welcoming me.
When I am with you,
I feel blessed.
As if the time
looks down on me.
We are lucky to have you.
All of us.
Mary...
can I ask you a question?
Yes.
Where do you come from?
I fear you'd think I am foolish
when I say I cannot remember.
When I look back, all
I see is darkness.
A life without Etan is
a life without light.
But you're with us now.
In his good graces.
Yes.
And thine as well.
-[rain pouring]
-[thunder rumbling]
[dramatic music]
Forgive me.
Elijah!
Elijah, are you in there?
Our leader, Etan--
Abigail, why don't we let
Mary give the thanks tonight?
Oh divine one, give
us grateful hearts,
for all thy mercies.
Bless this food for our
use and us in your service.
Please do join us,
our guest to be,
and bless these gifts
bestowed to thee.
Blessed be.
[Mary humming]
Twas but a flower
that caught mine eye
of which impossibly
grew through the weeds
making its existence
all the more special.
What a beautiful voice you have!
You could say I was blessed
with it to honor Etan.
Please, do not
stop on my account.
Caleb, you must be strong,
for every day the temptation
of the flesh will get stronger.
Do you think you can
manage your urges?
Each day I ask Etan for
strength and guidance.
Good.
Through him, I know
I can stay true.
Good.
[Mary humming]
Sing it again.
I can't. I'm too embarrassed.
Come now.
Evelyn, Abigail please leave
us and dress for chapel.
My dear boy, it feels like
just yesterday that I felt you
in my womb, and yet look,
how much you've grown.
There comes a moment in
every mother's life that
she both welcomes and dreads
when a child is hers no longer.
Get dressed.
[upbeat music]
We stand here in the house
of Etan on the precipice
of the most holy of unities
to witness the amalgamation
of both kith and kin, for it
is not until wedlock that Mary
can truly be ours to take
in the eyes of El-Shalah.
Blessed be.
And Caleb, does thou
proclaim to be a true lamb?
To take Mary as thy wife and
to offer her to Etan in spirit
and in body for her soul,
and ours will now become one.
I do, Father.
And Mary, does thou take
Caleb to follow obediently
to serve the will of Etan?
I do.
And I say to thee let thee
behold the grace of Etan
as he joins thee in wedlock.
Evelyn, Abigail.
We pray to you guide these two
through sacrifice and service.
Give them the strength
for what is to come.
And though you'll pass,
though righteous can
be hard to follow,
you must cut out
the boil to kill the wound.
Behold, he joins us.
He blesses us with his presence.
Caleb, kneel!
As Etan has looked
down upon thee.
Rejoice as thou have been
chosen to offer thy bride to him
no less than on thy wedding day.
Offer to him?
Does thou give thyself to
thy maker as a vessel to do
with as he sees fit?
Of course.
Then come child, for
it is proclaimed by him
that thou shalt bear
the child of El-Shalah.
Hold him, for the will of
Etan requires a strong hand.
Mary.
Do not interfere.
She's betrothed to
Etan and Etan alone.
Mary,
Mary!
-Are you all right?
-I am.
Mary, I--
It's a beautiful
day, isn't it?
Well, last night, I--
Could not have dreamt
of a better night.
To be one with thee
in the eyes of Etan.
I'm so fortunate it
is not lost on me.
Caleb!
How does it feel to be a man
in the eyes of our savior?
Fear not, son, for the
burden of adulthood
is equally shared.
I promise that it
will grow on thee.
For as long as you
walk alongside Etan,
he will lead you to salvation.
Son, if you were
to lead this flock,
there are many things
you need to learn.
You will understand in time.
[yelling and sobbing]
Our faith resides in
the plan of El-Shalah.
It may not be easy for anybody,
but we must abide by his will.
Praise be for a blessed harvest.
In these coming weeks, we
will discover what Etan
truly believes we are worth.
The time to pluck our fortune
from the earth begins.
Blessed be.
[gasps]
[dramatic music]
Goodnight, sweet family.
If you push him too
hard, he might break.
It is not I who pushes him.
Are you sure of that?
We've been down
this path before.
Mary, would thou lead
us in the blessing?
♪ In El-Shalah we all subside ♪
Do not question Etan's process.
We will not talk
of the past here.
Thank thee, Mary.
That was remarkable.
-Caleb, you must stop this-
-Leave me.
It's been a long day and
I must retire to bed.
Abigail, help your mother
with the washing up.
Mary, help me prepare for bed.
Yes, Father.
Caleb, please help
me with the dishes.
I'm tired from the day.
I must retire.
Oh child, do not pretend to
understand the complexities
of the world.
You're blessed to be as
sheltered as you are.
Have I ever told you of the
day thy father and I met?
No, ma'am.
It was his gaze that
first caught my attention.
The way he looked
right through me.
Straight into my soul.
I knew he was a man
built in Etan's image.
You see, I too, like you
once lived a life of sin,
and your father saw that in me.
And I saw his potential.
The world felt so
different back then.
It was much more pure.
We needn't fear evil at
every turn like we do now.
But your father taught
me to see Abaddon,
and all the cracks and craters.
He taught me to remain vigilant.
He prophesied the end.
And he saved me from
eternal damnation
when it eventually arrived.
It was in each day
that I knew him,
that I grew closer to him.
We didn't speak at first,
but I knew as did he
that one day he would
be mine as I was his.
But he had the fight
in him like you.
A fight I needed to be torn out,
as I tear it from you.
We bear the burden,
thy father and I,
deliver your souls
from the evil embrace.
[sobbing]
Goodnight, children.
Caleb.
Say nothing, and do
not get in my way.
Caleb, keep swinging like that,
you'll have nothing
left, but kindling.
How dare you walk away from me?
Leave me be!
I do my work.
I do my chores.
Leave me to them!
If thou continues on
this path, I will--
You will what?
Oh.
Good for you, son.
I always wondered if you'd
ever grow a backbone,
and if you ask me,
it's about time.
Everyone, look at Caleb.
He wants to assert himself as
a man, assert his dominance.
Take notice.
How selfish.
Every day I pray for thy sins.
I am forced to make
sacrifices of the flesh.
Yet you stand here, just a boy.
Not even able to
pleasure his own wife.
Caleb, don't!
Stay out of this, girl.
This be the business of men.
Enough!
When song and prayer failed
to rectify our vessels,
we must turn to our last resort.
Sacrifice.
Abigail, come stand by me.
Mary, please sing us a hymn.
[Mary humming]
Oh Etan, we beg for forgiveness,
for we are as yet
to be your mortals.
Find it in your
divine compassion
to lead us to the light.
-[Abigail screams]
-No!
Careful boy, or meet thy maker.
You need to shoot me, so be it,
but I will not let
her die for my sins.
Not up to us to question
the will of Etan.
Help!
Caleb, help me!
Cleanse me of thy sins
in the name of El-Shalah.
Oh lord, please rid us of the
evil that plagues our family.
[screaming]
-[screaming underwater]
-Stop!
[garbled,
indiscernible speech]
I pray if there are
any who doubt you...
[indiscernible speech]
-Blessed be!
-Stop it!
Your choice, boy.
'Cause you're filled with pride
and you will let this girl die.
Forgive me please.
[Abigail coughing]
You are losing your flock.
An impotent man is useless
in the eyes of Etan.
No!
You know better.
Mary, will you lead us?
Oh divine one...
How is she?
Fear not, my consort.
For he hath not less
faith than thee.
For I once stood
where you stand now.
I once stood where the
light could not reach me.
But I feel it now.
And it's warm in its embrace
and so shall you feel it again.
As Father teaches, you
must cut out the boil
to cure the wound.
Caleb?
[dramatic music]
Heed be.
For I do not fear
death any longer.
Go to the children.
I'll take care of him.
Come now, boy.
It's not too late to
beg for forgiveness.
Oh, I promise thee that
every time you defy his plan,
he will come down two
times in punishment.
You say, it be his plan,
but you know it is lies
that spew through thy mouth.
So you think you know better?
Pity, you will never have
the wisdom of your father.
Well, I suppose
we best find out.
[yells]
Where be your angels, Father?
Etan does not punish
his loyal disciples.
Lies!
Etan speaks to me and
demands thy punishment.
Hear me now, Father, for
you do not have much time.
For here is your reckoning.
And for me it does not
constitute enough--
Aaah!
[grunting]
I thought you were a man.
Not the boy I first met.
Just a boy.
Enough.
Fallen prey to the
temptations of the flesh.
You know what I'm capable of.
Then show me.
Quickly, girls, we
have little time.
Come, girl, or does one
wish to join one's brother?
Hmm?
Quickly!
The rains may yet come.
[thunder rumbling]
Our creator,
our shepherd,
giver or life.
Today, we must thank
you for this bounty
that thou lay before us.
For it is insufficient to
merely say Etan is good.
We pray to you
tonight in jubilance
as we have witnessed firsthand
your immense kindness.
We've done nothing to
deserve this El-Shalah.
But we accept it
with graciousness
knowing it is in your power
to take it away if you please.
Etan blesses us for
our faith and service.
If we love and respect our
father, then he will provide.
Anyone who challenges Etan
will be punished and cleansed.
We are undeserving of
that kindness, El-Shalah,
and owe to you our
eternal gratitude.
Etan!
... be free!
Let me free.
Etan!
[Father] But instead we must
show you in our actions,
in our prayers, that
we are forever in debt
of your kindness.
[Caleb] Etan, free!
Etan is good.
Etan is great.
We also thank thee for
blessing us with Mary.
We know that it is you
El-Shalah who works through her,
but without that vessel we could
not have reaped your bounty
in all its glory.
We thank thee.
-Blessed be.
Eat up, child.
It's time to stop
thinking as just one.
It occurs to me that with
Caleb atoning for his sins,
we have a bed free.
Go to the children's
quarters Mary.
I'll be right behind you.
Go ahead, Mary.
The bed is yours
while Caleb repents.
Thank thee, Mother.
Etan has smiled upon us.
A true blessing indeed.
But know this. What
Etan gives, he can take.
Now is the time to be
more faithful than ever.
Yes, Mother.
Sleep well, my dears.
-[Caleb shouting]
-[thunder rumbling]
He's gonna die out there.
Will they ever bring him inside?
When it has been decided
that one has to be
punished by Etan.
There is little one
can do to atone.
I fear his fate will be the
same as our brother, Elijah.
[Mary] Elijah?
There was once a
member of our family.
A boy, Elijah.
In Father's teachings,
he found words of peace.
He found salvation, but not
through force and ritual,
but through love.
I truly believed my father
saw his connection to Etan.
I believe he grew jealous of it.
Man doing it for mankind
seems so far from destiny.
It seems it is in need,
for control and power.
And I wonder how is it the
same scripture that both
he and my Father read.
It is written that as long
as they watch over us,
we are to adorn them.
Sometimes, he cannot
reconcile the word of Etan.
I don't know what
Caleb has done,
but that's my brother
laying there dying.
My soul is split.
I want to follow, to stay true.
But I fear Father
needs us as strength.
How could they be so wrong?
They're my creators.
The ones who have shown me Etan.
And if they were
not your creators?
I would see to it
that they were cold,
and buried in the ground.
Fear not brother,
for I am with you.
[dramatic music]
Children, to shelter.
Go!
Hurry.
I'll rescue Caleb.
Hurry child for Abaddon
is near and has no mercy,
for the children of Etan.
Pray with me, child.
Lest thou will be swept away.
Thou knows not what Etan wants.
But you do and you give Abaddon.
How dare thou speak
such blasphemy?
Abaddon plays tricks
with your mind, my son.
You see what he
wants you to see.
Liar.
There are no dark
angels outside.
You want to see
Abaddon's angels?
Do you?
Speak, say one word, and I
will protect thee no longer,
and leave thee
thy known devices.
You will respect and
honor your father.
Or you will meet thine end.
Do you repent for the sins
that you have committed?
For the evil thoughts that move
from your mind to your soul.
And you ask for forgiveness
from the savior who demands
that you honor your
father and mother,
and do all that they ask.
Yes.
Let us begin the
path back to Etan.
Blessed be.
He will come to thee in time,
son, if it is believed to be.
Wake up.
We believe that
you're ready to join
the good graces of Etan.
Are you?
[Caleb] Yes, yes.
El-Shalah have come on
to me and he hath said,
"Allow thy son, Caleb,
to repent his sins.
"Let him sacrifice, so you
know his love be true."
Caleb, do you ask
for forgiveness
as we all bear witness
in this house?
Yes, yes.
Then unto thee I say,
Etan has been so gracious
he allows it through the
blood of thy brother!
Elijah!
No!
-No!
-Easy, child.
This is not your fight.
Etan has come to me and
said it is my sacrifice
to slay my youngest son.
And as my eldest, you
will make the sacrifice
of thy father's word.
El-Shalah has blessed us both.
But did Etan not spare his son,
and send a sacrificial
lamb instead?
[grunts]
If Etan desires a sacrificial
lamb, he will provide one.
But thou seest no lamb.
You will be lest you
wish to see the death
of all those you hold dear.
Do as you're told or watch
as I smite your loved ones.
Come now.
Choose the path to El-Shalah,
let him welcome you back
to his good graces.
For he hath heard.
Brother I am free--
Please forgive me, please
forgive me, please.
I am free.
[grunting]
Elijah!
No!
Ow!
Stop!
-Etan commands thee!
-[dramatic music]
Abigail, please,
please come back to us.
The night has been
hard on you, poor girl.
Come, my dear, you'll catch
your death in this cold.
It is only the salvation
of your soul that prods us.
Nothing more.
Abigail!
-[gunshot fires]
-Sinner!
I see it now.
Abaddon fills thy spirit.
Thy veins and vessels are
washed with his bloodlust.
You have turned your back
on Etan and therefore,
bear no protection from
his loving embrace.
To him, you are no more
than a shameful witch
leading Abaddon's army.
No!
It is you who is the
sinner, who leads us astray,
I see it now.
You are nothing but a hateful
old man who wrongly sees
himself as righteous.
He won't fall for this.
He will see to it.
If those are thy
last words, so be it.
I know in time I will
answer for my failings,
but he knows I did try.
No, no, please no.
Please, please, I... I see it is
I who cast a veil
upon this family.
It was upon my arrival
that this all began.
It allowed for Abaddon to
creep into our existence.
Allow me to sacrifice myself
in my sister's stead--
Come, girl, this is no
time to be righteous.
Come now.
If El-Shalah speaks to her,
who are we to interfere?
Shut your mouth.
If Etan speaks to you,
then let it be so.
No.
It seemed that El-Shalah
has plans for thee yet.
Let it be known that most
don't get another chance.
Stay here.
You were supposed to be their
leader, their protector,
to guide them along the
path of the righteous.
Instead, you have lead your
brother to eternal darkness.
You will remain here isolated
until you have returned
your heart to him.
And if you do not find your
path back to the light,
we will have need to make
more sacrifices for your sins.
Let thy brother's
death stay in thy soul.
And may forever
on thy conscience.
[Caleb sobbing]
We can't go on like this.
Oh merciful, Etan,
please spare my sister,
-rid her of her wicked ways.
-Stop it!
You are not my sister.
You were dragged here,
do you not remember?
I remember the mercy, the
reckoning, the day my soul
was born anew one to thy family.
It was you who said
to hold our tongues,
and we would be safe, that
we must stay obedient.
Maybe if your brother
had done the same,
he could have avoided his fate.
[Mary screams]
Etan is merciful.
His teachings are in
kindness and forgiveness.
That was not mercy.
That was Abaddon
working through them.
They do not walk with
El-Shalah anymore.
How could you so quickly
be turned into their spell?
It was mere months
ago you arrived.
I have known Etan's teachings
my whole life, too.
It's all Father taught
me since I was young.
Since you were young?
We need to go.
I do not know what we will find,
but I promise it will
be far better than here.
Caleb, can you hear me?
The door's locked.
[Caleb] Go, leave me.
No, I will never leave you.
[Caleb] I died in
that room with Elijah.
We will go get help.
I will return for you.
If Etan is just, he
will grant me that.
[dramatic music]
[Father] Years have
gone without mishap,
and now you defy
me because of what?
Jealousy?
[Mother] Who art
thou to judge me?
We have lost our flock,
and only you to blame.
[Father] Dare your
raise your hand at me!
[Mother] Tell me now.
Am I done with thee?
That bastard's son, the
lord needs you to beat
the sin from him.
Speak now for a long night
of punishment awaits.
[Father] We will see to it.
But we are not finished here.
[dramatic music]
Let us turn back.
Father will surely
forgive us if we repent.
Look, there is nothing
to be afraid of.
See, Etan blesses this
land as much as any.
Eve, we have to hurry.
Eve!
Hurry, we will be back for her.
I cannot go back in there.
Mary,
where do you come from?
Aah!
I will never let
anyone hurt you again.
Do you hear me?
You stay here.
I cannot abide by this.
No!
[dramatic music]
[Mother] Etan give us the
strength to carry out your will.
[Father] Insolence!
El-Shalah, may we honor you
with obedience and servitude.
Etan, give us the strength
to carry out your will.
El-Shalah, may we honor you
with obedience and servitude.
Give us the strength
to carry out your will.
El-Shalah, may we honor you
with obedience and servitude.
Etan, give us the st--
strength!
What have you done?
Wha--
My child, reveal thyself.
Thou has nothing to fear.
Reveal yourself for El-Shalah
is merciful, as am I.
Reveal yourself and
lessen your punishment.
[screaming]
Etan is my witness.
I ask you to repent
your evil ways.
El-Shalah, he doth
smile upon me.
He knows my soul as
he does my intentions.
Enough.
Do not be afraid of those
who can kill the body,
but cannot kill the soul.
But be afraid of the one who
can destroy both the soul,
and the body for eternity.
Enough!
El-Shalah I ask for
you to take this.
For she who lays before me...
[indiscernible speech]
[sobbing]
He promises to guide,
to leave no one behind.
To bless us and
both to anoint us.
[indiscernible speech]
[sobbing]
You professed in the open,
but denied them by your works.
You are detestable,
unfit for any good work.
You dare mock me in his house--
I pity you.
Who are you to pity me?
I see you as doth he.
I grow sad for your soul
and the eternal damnation
that awaits thee.
I saw your little cabin in
the woods where you kept Mary
and fed upon her.
You sick twisted man!
You think you know the truth?
I saved that girl's
soul from damnation
just the same as I saved
yours and your brothers'.
You know naught of the evils
that lurk outside these walls.
The decadence and frivolity.
You shant fight me.
Twisted man!
[inaudible speech]
You think you're special?
You're just one of
many, and many to come.
[grunting]
We must cut out the
boil to cure the wound.
You say you speak the
word of El-Shalah,
but you are
possessed by Abaddon.
Enough, enough!
You punished us,
you molested us with your evil.
Now it is your time
for punishment.
You shall no longer speak
the word of El-Shalah.
This ends here.
[gunshot fires]
Let thy blood
stain the floor of this
unholy chapel.
[Taking deep breaths]
You need help, brother.
-I will not let you die here.
-[dramatic music]
Come on, stay with us.
[grunts]
Is he gonna be all right?
[Caleb] No, no, no, no.
No, no, no, no.
We must keep going.
Abigail, Abigail,
oh, I love thee.
I wish I could've
protected you better.
But you did.
If it weren't for you,
we would have been doomed
to the secrets.
You can just get
up, just get up.
Come on.
No, no, no.
Just let me watch it burn.
Doth brought a flower.
[somber music]
Come on.
I promise no harm
will come to thee.
[somber music]
Run!
[dramatic music]
[helicopter whooshes]
[somber music]
[taking deep breaths]
[soft music]
[somber music]
[upbeat music]
[soft music]